---
layout: redirected
title: University of the West of England
excerpt: A solid logo outshone by the rest of the brand
date: 2010-07-05 08:20:00 +01:00

tags:
- english
- sansserif
- red
- ua
- southwest
- abstract

wiki: University_of_the_West_of_England
website: www.uwe.ac.uk
image: uwe.gif

---

A bold square with a curve and triangle that suggests a compass or sundial. It almost doesn't matter what the mark is meant to signify, in practice it functions as an abstract postage stamp device that type elements are able to hang off.

The logo includes the abbreviation of the quite lengthy title of the University, and unsurprisingly, the university stresses their Bristol location with it written large across the bottom and specified as an integral part of the logo. The inclusion of so much text in the logo makes it quite unwieldy and unusually, there's no obvious provision for a portrait version of the logo. There are however, lots of other suggestions for visual devices in the comprehensive online guidance produced by UWE.

It really benefits from the colour part, the monochrome versions look strangely flat, lacking the punch of the red, which gives an order of reading. The colour version demands that one notices the red square and then the type.

### Typography

Simple sans-serif throughout, with different weights of [Frutiger](http://typedia.com/explore/typeface/frutiger/). Not part of the logo but [VAG Rounded](http://typedia.com/explore/typeface/vag-rounded/) is used extensively in the wider branding, which consists of a set of suggested styles and treatments that form a kind of ongoing meta campaign for the university. The different elements are explained in a variety of pdfs helpfully produced by the marketing department.

### Summary

The more interesting branding work at UWE is provided by the wider messages and supporting designs that have been produced in the last few years, whilst the logo has been saddled with the mundane task of indicating a location and abbreviation. It does this competently but without the energy of the rest of the brand.
